web/dashboard/README.md, before:

# Steps to run locally

1. Google App Engine uses Java 8. Install Java 8 before running running locally:
   sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk

   To use java 8:
   Copy the following lines in ~/.bashrc

    ####################
    function setup_jdk() {
      # Remove the current JDK from PATH
      if [ -n "$JAVA_HOME" ] ; then
        PATH=${PATH/$JAVA_HOME\/bin:/}
      fi
      export JAVA_HOME=$1
      export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
    }

    function use_java8() {
    #  setup_jdk /usr/java/jre1.8.0_73
      setup_jdk /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64
    }

    Then from cmd:
    $ use_java8

2. Maven is used for build. Install Maven 3.3.9:
   Download maven from:
   https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi

   Steps to Install Maven:
   1) Unzip the Binary tar:
      tar -zxf apache-maven-3.3.3-bin.tar.gz

   2) Move the application directory to /usr/local
      sudo cp -R apache-maven-3.3.3 /usr/local

   3) Make a soft link in /usr/bin for universal access of mvn
      sudo ln -s /usr/local/apache-maven-3.3.3/bin/mvn /usr/bin/mvn

   4) Verify maven installation:
      $ mvn -v

      The output should resemble this:

      Apache Maven 3.3.9 (bb52d8502b132ec0a5a3f4c09453c07478323dc5; 2015-11-10T08:41:47-08:00)
      Maven home: /opt/apache-maven-3.3.9
      Java version: 1.8.0_45-internal, vendor: Oracle Corporation
      Java home: /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64/jre
      Default locale: en_US, platform encoding: UTF-8
      OS name: "linux", version: "3.13.0-88-generic", arch: "amd64", family: "unix"

3. Install Google Cloud SDK. Follow the instructions listed on official source:
   https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstart-linux

   The default location where the application searches for a google-cloud-sdk is:
   /usr/local/share/google/google-cloud-sdk

   Therefore move the extracted folder to this location: /usr/local/share/google/

   Otherwise, to have a custom location, specify the location of
   google-cloud-sdk in /vts/web/dashboard/appengine/servlet/pom.xml by putting the configuration:

   <configuration>
     <gcloud_directory>PATH/TO/GCLOUD_DIRECTORY</gcloud_directory>
   </configuration>

   within the 'com.google.appengine' plugin tag :

###########################################################

# To run GAE on local machine:

$ cd web/dashboard/appengine/servlet
$ mvn clean gcloud:run

# To deploy to GAE
$ mvn clean gcloud:deploy

visit https://android-vts-internal.googleplex.com

Commit message:

updating readme.md for dashboard
Change-Id: I37badfe62ddce77427bb6d5abe494f9e91aa30f0

web/dashboard/README.md, after:

# VTS Dashboard

## Introduction

The VTS Dashboard displays the summarized results of the Multi Device Tests along with graphs.

## Installation

### Steps to run locally:

1. Google App Engine uses Java 8. Install Java 8 before running running locally:
   'sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk'

   To use java 8:
   Copy the following lines in ~/.bashrc :

```
    function setup_jdk() {
      # Remove the current JDK from PATH
      if [ -n "$JAVA_HOME" ] ; then
        PATH=${PATH/$JAVA_HOME\/bin:/}
      fi
      export JAVA_HOME=$1
      export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$PATH
    }

    function use_java8() {
    #  setup_jdk /usr/java/jre1.8.0_73
      setup_jdk /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64
    }

    Then from cmd:
    $ use_java8
```

2. Maven is used for build. Install Maven 3.3.9:
   Download maven from:
   https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi

   Steps to Install Maven:
   1) Unzip the Binary tar:
      tar -zxf apache-maven-3.3.3-bin.tar.gz

   2) Move the application directory to /usr/local
      sudo cp -R apache-maven-3.3.3 /usr/local

   3) Make a soft link in /usr/bin for universal access of mvn
      sudo ln -s /usr/local/apache-maven-3.3.3/bin/mvn /usr/bin/mvn

   4) Verify maven installation:
      $ mvn -v

      The output should resemble this:

      Apache Maven 3.3.9 (bb52d8502b132ec0a5a3f4c09453c07478323dc5; 2015-11-10T08:41:47-08:00)
      Maven home: /opt/apache-maven-3.3.9
      Java version: 1.8.0_45-internal, vendor: Oracle Corporation
      Java home: /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64/jre
      Default locale: en_US, platform encoding: UTF-8
      OS name: "linux", version: "3.13.0-88-generic", arch: "amd64", family: "unix"

3. Install Google Cloud SDK. Follow the instructions listed on official source:
   https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstart-linux

   The default location where the application searches for a google-cloud-sdk is:
   /usr/local/share/google/google-cloud-sdk

   Therefore move the extracted folder to this location: /usr/local/share/google/

   Otherwise, to have a custom location, specify the location of
   google-cloud-sdk in /vts/web/dashboard/appengine/servlet/pom.xml by putting the configuration:

```
   <configuration>
     <gcloud_directory>PATH/TO/GCLOUD_DIRECTORY</gcloud_directory>
   </configuration>
```
   within the 'com.google.appengine' plugin tag :

## To run GAE on local machine:

$ cd web/dashboard/appengine/servlet
$ mvn clean gcloud:run

## To deploy to Google App Engine

$ cd web/dashboard/appengine/servlet
$ mvn clean gcloud:deploy

visit https://<YOUR-PROJECT-NAME>.appspot.com
